[Feature blog]: cgroup v1 deprecation (#52814)
kubernetes/website: content/en/blog/_posts/xxx-removing-cgroup-v1-support-kubernetes.md

---
layout: blog
title: "Kubernetes Deprecating cgroup v1: Completing the Transition to cgroup v2"
date: xx
slug: kubernetes-deprecating-cgroup-v1-transition-cgroup-v2
author: >
  [Kubernetes SIG Node](https://github.com/kubernetes/community/tree/master/sig-node)
---

> 

Reviewer: In the article introduction, make it clear that this change only applies to clusters with Linux nodes (you don't have to have any).

> Following the [transition of cgroup v1 support to maintenance mode](/blog/2024/08/14/kubernetes-1-31-moving-cgroup-v1-support-maintenance-mode/) in Kubernetes v1.31, the Kubernetes project is taking the next step in our migration to cgroup v2. Starting with Kubernetes v1.35, the kubelet will refuse to start on systems using cgroup v1 by default, and complete removal of cgroup v1 code is planned for a future release. This change aligns Kubernetes with the broader Linux ecosystem's evolution toward cgroup v2.

Author: Eh I'm okay to not have this as a blog. It makes my workload lighter.

But i think maybe its go to announce this.

Maybe this is better as a 1.35 blog post where we call this out. WDYT?

### Stable Phase (Future Release)

- Complete removal of cgroup v1 code from the kubelet
- No earlier than Kubernetes v1.38 to maintain the project's deprecation policy

## Why remove cgroup v1 support?

### Linux ecosystem evolution

The broader Linux ecosystem has been moving away from cgroup v1 support:

**systemd**: Deprecated cgroup v1 in version 256 and removed it entirely in version 258, stating that "support for cgroup v1 ('legacy' and 'hybrid' hierarchies) is now considered obsolete."

**Ubuntu**: Versions 25.04 and above inherit systemd v256 restrictions

**Red Hat Enterprise Linux**: Deprecated cgroup v1 in RHEL 9.4 and announced it will be unavailable in RHEL 10.

**Fedora**: Versions 41+ inherit systemd v256 restrictions, and version 43 will completely remove cgroup v1 support.

**Amazon Linux 2023**: Declares that "cgroup v1 is unsupported and not recommended" and will be "completely removed in a future major release."

### Technical advantages of cgroup v2

The migration to cgroup v2 provides significant benefits:

**Unified Hierarchy**
: Simplifies resource management with a single, consistent hierarchy structure.

**Improved Performance**

> : Better scalability and reduced overhead for large-scale deployments.

Reviewer 2: How did you measure it?

**Enhanced Features**
: Access to new kernel features and improvements that are only available in cgroup v2.

**Better Resource Control**
: More precise and predictable resource allocation and limits.

## Preparing for the transition

### For cluster administrators

To ensure a smooth transition, cluster administrators should:

> 1. **Verify cgroup version**: Check if your nodes are running cgroup v1 or v2:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. **Verify cgroup version**: Check if your cluster has any Linux nodes running with cgroup v1:
```

   ```bash
   # Check cgroup version
   stat -fc %T /sys/fs/cgroup/
   # Output: cgroup2fs = cgroup v2, tmpfs = cgroup v1
   ```

> 2. **Migrate host systems**: Transition nodes to cgroup v2 before upgrading Kubernetes:

Reviewer: (Linux nodes)

   - Update to a recent Linux distribution that defaults to cgroup v2
   - Configure systemd to use cgroup v2 if not already enabled
   - Restart nodes to apply cgroup v2 configuration

> 3. **Update container runtimes**: Ensure your container runtime supports cgroup v2:

Reviewer: Are we sure that this is an exhaustive list? If not, rephrase to make that clear.
